Jacob's a senior is a leading player in
Botswana's diamond industry
this is some that is the main government
offices you see all those buildings were
not yeah 14 years ago while we have seen
Chinese our goal is a verification and
that's all that we have seen kinnison 40
years ago but Rana was one of the
poorest countries in the world in 1967
diamonds were discovered since then
largely as a result of good governance
but suami has had the world's fastest
growing economy it is now one of the
richest countries in Africa so rich that
everyone is educated for free when I did
my first year was so excited I thought
of the most intelligent wonderful world
to Austerlitz and I said I think one of
the best moments of my life was when I
entered University without my friends
paying a single cent as a result of
revenue that this country derived from
damage
this is the Republic of Botswana on the
sparklin part we have South Africa and
you have dragons back somewhere here and
Pretoria here this is some time Allah
had a Game Preserve
he said we are desert where it is very
little vegetation and very little or no
water at all and therefore the
government is moving people outside the
circle hurry to provide social amenities
the consent of the Masonic admin and
everybody in this country is why should
the Basara community not benefit from
the revenue from diamonds they used to
live here
the man who oversaw the relocation of
the Bushmen was no known mashiki the
district commissioner or DC it was kind
of a really hard life nomadic type of
life where there were no facilities we
don't know easy access to weather
wildlife they had no transportation you
will see it will take time to train with
the hospital it was really tough tough
life and it was kind of like a nomadic
type of life that they used to leave
because they would be going out hunting
like but there was nothing like schools
in whatsoever the decease boss is based
in hvar oniy the capital city you know
as Minister of Local Government one of
my responsibilities is children and
access to primary education is
absolutely not negotiable you know the
only reason we still have free education
which is not compulsory
is because we still don't have the
mechanism and to me to make sure that
every child is in school
tell me how you access education when
you are constantly on the move
the relocation camp of new Clady
is now home to 1500 Bushmen it is 30
kilometers outside of their ancestral
lands here for the first time all the
children of the Kalahari are within
walking distance of a school